Setup and Object of Checkers:
Checkers is played on a standard 64 square board. Only the 32 dark colored squares are used in play. Each player begins the game with 12 pieces, or checkers, placed in the three rows closest to him or her. 

The object of the game is to capture all of your opponent’s checkers or position your pieces so that your opponent has no available moves. 


Movement:
Basic movement is to move a checker one space diagonally forward. You can not move a checker backwards until it becomes a King, as described below. If a jump is available, you must take the jump, as described in the next question and answer. 


Jumping:
If one of your opponent’s checkers is on a forward diagonal next to one of your checkers, and the next space beyond the opponent’s checker is empty, then your checker must jump the opponent’s checker and land in the space beyond. Your opponent’s checker is captured and removed from the board.

After making one jump, your checker might have another jump available from its new position. Your checker must take that jump too. It must continue to jump until there are no more jumps available. Both men and kings are allowed to make multiple jumps.

If, at the start of a turn, more than one of your checkers has a jump available, then you may decide which one you will move. But once you have chosen one, it must take all the jumps that it can. 


You Must Jump if Possible:
If a jump is available for one of your pieces, you must make that jump. If more jumps are available with that same piece, you must continue to jump with it until it can jump no more. To make the second and third jump with a piece, you do not need to click that piece again. Just click the next space to which it will jump. 

If more than one of your pieces has a jump available at the start of your turn, you can choose which piece you will move. But then you must make all the jumps available for that piece.


When a Piece Will Not Move:
Sometimes, you may find that you can not click on a checkers piece to move it. When this happens, look at the board carefully. You probably have a jump available with a different piece. If this is the case, then you must jump with the piece that has the jump. Also, you must take every jump that a piece has available. 


*Instructions are from itsyourturn.com*